# 1. Introduction

  A water supply system is a system for the collection, storage, treatment, transmission, and distribution of water from the source to the consumers. The Water Distribution Network is one of the most interesting and complex infrastructure systems in todays world. This report is based on a case study of the water distribution network for ‘Suez Town’ by a group of students in Auckland University of Technology. ‘Suez Town’ is a modular town with a developed water network. The purpose of the study was to build the most cost-effective 24-hour schedule for this town while making sure that each tank has a same or similar volume of water at the end of each day as compared to the volume of water in that tank at the beginning of the day.  The case study was done on an operational cycle that started from 8:00 am. The study also provided a cost benefit analysis based on a growing population of 10% year upon year in ‘Suez Town’. 
The water networks are modelled with the help of a collection of nodes. Each of the nodes represent a demand or a supply which are then linked or connected by means of pipes. [1] The source nodes are typically the tanks, reservoirs and other storage facilities. There are control and distribution nodes like pumps, pipe junctions, valves etc. And finally, the demand nodes or consumers and sinks. The water distribution network of ‘Suez Town’ has several key elements like pumps, valves, pipes, and tanks. The geometrical layout of the Suez Town is known to us which includes the source of water, the tanks, pumps, valves, and demand locations and the elevation of all the above nodes. The valves are Flow Control Valves and they restrict how much water can go through the pipe. The tanks are all top filled, and they have fixed static head, and the pipes are assumed to be frictionless that would help with the mass balance calculations. There is only one water source in ‘Suez Town’ i.e. the Cornwall Water Treatment Plant. Four water tanks, namely the Clear Well, Ellerslie, Penrose, and Newmarket. Two pumping stations at Cornwall and Kingsland with three pumps at each station respectfully and two valves at Greenwood and Ericsson.   

  In general, the design and construction of a water network is influenced by the cost of connections and pumping of water from the sources to their demand locations and subject to the elevation factor. The pumping energy cost is said to be the most important part of the operational cost of any water distribution network. [2] In the Suez town the water network supplies water to three demand locations at different elevations, namely Kingsland, New Market and Ellerslie. The demand data for these locations, cover an operational cycle of 24 hours for every hour on weekdays. The tariff data is also for 24 hours for every hour at three rates i.e. the peak rate, part peak rate and off-peak rate. 
  
  The model was implemented with proc optmodel in SAS. The graphs were also developed using SAS. 
  
  This report was based on a near to real water network system. Some of the challenges that could be faced while working on a similar model in real life are friction in pipes, leakages, gravity driven water networks etc. In this model, we have considered only the cost on tariffs. However, in real life problem, there will be many other costs to be considered and also the revenues. So, in one way even though we had a simpler version of the network model to work on, in real life the absence of some of the above features in modelling might lead to certain limitations in the applicability of the model.  

